Documentation about bills matching algorithm (#1496)
cozy/cozy-banks: docs/bills-matching.md

> # Bills/transactions matching algorithm

Reviewer: I think it would be good to have it on docs.cozy.io and since cozy-banks documentation is not there, it will not be there (maybe cozy-banks documentation should be added to docs.cozy.io) ?

Reviewer: Maybe we could add a link to the FAQ https://support.cozy.io/category/132-cozy-banks ?

Author: cozy-banks documentation should be added to docs.cozy.io. I will open a PR to organize banks doc correctly and another one to add banks doc to docs.cozy.io.

The matching algorithm is in charge of finding matchings between

> `io.cozy.bills` and `io.cozy.bank.operations` documents. This document explains

Reviewer: Maybe add a sentence on what `matchings` are and how they are used in the UI ?

how the matching algorithm works.

## The Linker

> The algorithm is held by the [`Linker`](), and more precisely its `linkBillsToOperations` method. This method takes 3 parameters:

Reviewer: Missing link for Linker ?

* An array of `io.cozy.bills` objects
* An array of `io.cozy.bank.operations` objects
* An options object

The options object can contain the following properties:

* `minAmountDelta`: defaults to `0.001`
* `maxAmountDelta`: defaults to `0.001`
* `pastWindow`: defaults to 15 (days)

> * `futureWindow`: defaults to 29 (days)

Reviewer: Is it properly documented with jsdoc ? I think this documentation could live in the Linker file. I wonder how could we "embed"/"mix" something generated from JSDoc and a more detailed documentation like this one.

Reviewer: https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/07/introducing-sphinx-js-a-better-way-to-document-large-javascript-projects/

Author: This is now properly documented with jsdoc

These options will determine the default date and amount windows in which a
transaction should be to match with a bill.

## General flow

When called, this method will do the following (each part will be explained in
details after):

> * Filter bills that are declared as third party payer: these bills have no matching transation since it has been paid by somebody else

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Filter bills that are declared as third party payer: a third party bill does not have a matching transaction since it has been paid by somebody else
```

* Then for each bill:
  * Try to find a matching debit transaction (amount < 0)
  * Try to find a matching credit transaction (amount > 0) if the bill is a refund
  * Try to combine bills that didn't match anything to see if they match something when combined

>   * Update transactions that matched in database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Update transactions that matched in the database
```

## Finding debit and credit operations for a bill

The algorithm is globally the same to find a debit or a credit operation for a

> bill, but there are some differences at some steps.

Reviewer: At the end of this sentence, I expect a paragraph on differences. I would maybe add a sentence like "Each step is explained below."

### Find neighboring transactions

First, we look for transactions that are « neighbors » of the bill. It means
the ones that fits in the amount and date windows of the bill.

The date window is `[bill date - dateLowerDelta; bill date + dateUpperDelta]`. Where:

* `bill date` is `bill.date` if we are looking for a credit; `bill.originalDate` with a fallback on `bill.date` if we are looking for a debit
* `dateLowerDelta` is `bill.matchingCriterias.dateLowerDelta` if it exists, `options.pastWindow` otherwise
* `dateUpperDelta` is `bill.matchingCriterias.dateUpperDelta` if it exists, `options.futureWindow` otherwise

The amount window is `[bill amount - amountLowerDelta; bill amount + amountUpperDelta]`. Where:

* `bill amount` is `bill.groupAmount` with a fallback on `bill.amount` if we are looking for a credit; `-bill.originalAmount` with a fallback on `-bill.amount` if we are looking for a debit
* `amountLowerDelta` is `bill.matchingCriterias.amountLowerDelta` if it exists, `options.minAmoutDelta` otherwise
* `amountUpperDelta` is `bill.matchingCriterias.amountUpperDelta` if it exists, `options.maxAmoutDelta` otherwise

> All transactions that matches these two criterias are kept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All transactions matching these two criterias are kept.
```

### Apply filters to neighboring transactions

> There are other filters a transaction must pass to match with a bill.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transaction must pass other filters to match with a bill.
```

#### Category

> Health bills are a little special because they can only match with health

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Health bills are special because they can only match with health
```

transactions. So if the bill is an health bill, we keep only health
transactions. Otherwise, we keep all but health transactions.

> You can pass a `allowUncategorized` option to the algorithm, in which case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`allowUncategorized` can be passed option to the algorithm, in which case
```

Before, the doc is not written as a guide but as a technical documentation, this is why I think we should avoid the "You"

> uncategorized transactions will also be able to match bills.

Reviewer: In which case is this important ?

Author: Actually this is not used today, except in the visualizer, which propose a checkbox to enable this. I don't know why this possibility exists.

#### Reimbursements

> This filter is applied only if we are looking for a debit transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This filter is applied only if we are looking for a __debit transaction__.
```

If we try to link a bill as a reimbursement to a debit transaction, we check

> that the bill's amount and transaction's reimbursements sum does not overflows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the bill's amount and transaction's reimbursements sum does not overflow
```

the transaction's amount.

#### Label regex

> This filter is applied only if we are looking for a credit transaction or if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This filter is applied only if we are looking for a __credit__ transaction or if
```

Reviewer: I like to have important words emphasized.

> the bill is not of health type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the bill __is not of health type__.
```

This filter checks if a transaction matches a regex that is built upon the
bill's properties. Here is how the regexp is built:

* If the bill has a `matchingCriterias.labelRegex` property, this is used
* Otherwise we try to get the brand corresponding to the bill's vendor in our [brands dictionary](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/src/ducks/brandDictionary/brands.json). If it exists, we use its `regexp` property
* Otherwise, we create a regexp containing the bill's vendor
* Lastly, if the bill has no vendor, we can't do anything and the filter will be `false` for every transaction and the bill will not match any transaction

### Sort remaining transactions

> A score is given to the remaining transactions according to their « distance »

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remaining transactions are __scored__ according to their « distance »
```

to the bill's date and amount. The closest one wins and continues through the
algorithm.

### Link bills to debit and credit transactions

> When transactions were found for a given bill, we need to link the bill to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When transactions are found for a given bill, we need to link the bill to
```

I think the past made it sound like "if transactions were found for a given bill in the past and not during the course of the matching".

them, either as a `bill` or as a `reimbursement`.

> When a bill matched with a transaction (debit or credit), it is added to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a bill matches with a transaction (debit or credit), it is added to the
```

transaction's `bills` array.

> When a bill matched with a debit and a credit transactions, it is also added to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a bill matches with both a debit and a credit transactions, it is also added to
```

What happens if it only matches with a `debit` ? It is not added to `reimbursements` ?

Author: That's it. Do you think it is not clear enough?

the debit transaction's `reimbursements` array.

In both cases, a last safety net is applied by checking if adding the bill to

> the transaction would make the bills sum overflowing the transaction amount or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the transaction would make the bills sum overflow the transaction amount or
```

not. It it overflows, the bill is not added.

> ## Bills combinations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bills combination
```

Sometimes, bills need to be combined to match with a debit transaction. It is

> mostly the case for health bills. For example, when your paid multiple medical

Reviewer: s/It is mostly the case for health bills/This is generally the case for health bills.

procedures with a single transaction. It will generate multiple bills for a

> single debit transaction. In this case, we try to combine bills and find debit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single debit transaction. In this case, we try to combine bills and find a debit
```

transaction for them.

> This combination process is not required to find debit transaction because in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This combination process is not required to find debit transactions because in
```
